# Diabetes-Prediction-Using-Machine-Learning
The objective of this diabetes dataset is to predict whether the patient has diabtetes or not.The dataset consists of several medical predictor (independent) variables and one target variable (outcome). Predictor variables includes pregnancies,Glucose,BloodPressure,SkinThickness,Insulin,BMI,DiabetesPedigreeFunction,Age and target varible Outcome.                                                                                                                                                
1.Dataset Description- the data is gathered from UCI repository which is named as Pima Indian Diabetes Dataset. The dataset have many attributes of 768 patients.       
S No.   Attributes                                                                                                                                                  
1	Pregnancy                                                                                                                                                   
2	Glucose                                                                                                                                                     
3	Blood Pressure                                                                                                                                                      
4	Skin thickness                                                                                                                                              
5	Insulin                                                                                                                                                         
6	BMI(Body Mass Index)                                                                                                                                                
7	Diabetes Pedigree Function                                                                                                                                          
8	Age                                                                                                                                                             
The 9th attribute is class variable of each data points. This class variable shows the outcome 0 and 1 for diabetics which indicates positive or negative for diabetics.
Distribution of Diabetic patient- We made a model to predict diabetes however the dataset was slightly imbalanced having around 500 classes labeled as 0 means negative means no diabetes and 268 labeled as 1 means positive means diabetic.                                                                                           
2.Data Preprocessing- Data preprocessing is most important process. Mostly healthcare related data contains missing vale and other impurities that can cause effectiveness of data. To improve quality and effectiveness obtained after mining process, Data preprocessing is done. To use Machine Learning Techniques on the dataset effectively this process is essential for accurate result and successful prediction. For Pima Indian diabetes dataset we need to perform pre processing in two steps.     
    i.	Missing Values removal- Remove all the instances that have zero (0) as worth. Having zero as worth is not possible. Therefore this instance is eliminated. Through eliminating irrelevant features/instances we make feature subset and this process is called features subset selection, which reduces dimentionality of data and help to work faster.                                                                                                                                             
    ii.	Splitting of data- After cleaning the data, data is normalized in training and testing the model. When data is spitted then we train algorithm on the training data set and keep test data set aside. This training process will produce the training model based on logic and algorithms and values of the feature in training data. Basically aim of normalization is to bring all the attributes under same scale.                                                                                       
3.Apply Machine Learning- When data has been ready we apply Machine Learning Technique. We use different classification and ensemble techniques, to predict diabetes. The methods applied on Pima Indians diabetes dataset. Main objective to apply Machine Learning Techniques to analyze the performance of these methods and find accuracy of them, and also been able to figure out the responsible/important feature which play a major role in prediction.
